README.md, before:

# sweet-potato
Node Indexing Pipeline - EVM

## Database Operations

### Start the Database
```bash
# Start the database
docker compose up -d
```

### Tear Down the Database
```bash
# Stop and remove containers
docker compose down

# To completely remove everything including volumes (this will delete all data)
docker compose down -v

# Clean up data directory
rm -rf ./db/user_files/*
```

## Running the Indexer

### Environment Variables
The indexer supports the following environment variables:
- `START`: Starting block number (default: 1)
- `COUNT`: Number of blocks to process (default: 1)
- `CLICKHOUSE_URL`: ClickHouse database URL (default: http://localhost:8123)
- `PRINT_OUTPUT`: Whether to print detailed output (default: false)

### Run the Indexer
```bash
# Basic usage (will process 1 block starting from block 1)
cd indexer && cargo run

# Process specific block range
cd indexer && START=1000 COUNT=100 cargo run

# Process blocks with logs
cd indexer && RUST_LOG=info START=100 COUNT=10 cargo run

# Process blocks with detailed output of the porocessed data 
cd indexer && RUST_LOG=debug START=100 COUNT=1 cargo run

# Use custom database URL
cd indexer && CLICKHOUSE_URL="http://custom-host:8123" cargo run
```

### Create a Virtual Environment
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## DBT Setup and Operations

### Install DBT Dependencies
```bash
# Make sure you're in the virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dbt-clickhouse
pip install dbt-clickhouse
```

### Run DBT
```bash
# Navigate to dbt project directory
cd dbt_clickhouse

# Test the connection
dbt debug

# Run the models
dbt run

# Test the data
dbt test
```

### Query Data in ClickHouse
You can use the provided bash scripts to quickly query the data:

```bash
# Make scripts executable
chmod +x db/sql_queries/query_blocks.sh db/sql_queries/query_transactions.sh db/sql_queries/query_receipts.sh

# Query blocks
./db/sql_queries/query_blocks.sh

# Query transactions
./db/sql_queries/query_transactions.sh

# Query receipts
./db/sql_queries/query_receipts.sh

### Troubleshooting
- If dbt can't find the JSON files, verify the paths in the model SQL files
- If you get permission errors, ensure ClickHouse has access to the raw data directory
- If you need to reset the tables, you can run:
```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sweet_potatoe_dbt.raw_blocks;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sweet_potatoe_dbt.raw_transactions;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sweet_potatoe_dbt.raw_receipts;
```

Commit message:

full log traces in dbt

README.md, after:

# sweet-potato
Node Indexing Pipeline - EVM

## Database Operations

### Start the Database
```bash
# Start the database
docker compose up -d
```

### Tear Down the Database
```bash
# Stop and remove containers
docker compose down

# To completely remove everything including volumes (this will delete all data)
docker compose down -v

# Clean up data directory
rm -rf ./db/user_files/*
```

## Running the Indexer

### Environment Variables
The indexer supports the following environment variables:
- `START`: Starting block number (default: 1)
- `COUNT`: Number of blocks to process (default: 1)
- `CLICKHOUSE_URL`: ClickHouse database URL (default: http://localhost:8123)
- `PRINT_OUTPUT`: Whether to print detailed output (default: false)

### Run the Indexer
```bash
# Basic usage (will process 1 block starting from block 1)
cd indexer && cargo run

# Process specific block range
cd indexer && START=1000 COUNT=100 cargo run

# Process blocks with logs
cd indexer && RUST_LOG=info START=100 COUNT=10 cargo run

# Process blocks with detailed output of the porocessed data 
cd indexer && RUST_LOG=debug START=100 COUNT=1 cargo run

# Use custom database URL
cd indexer && CLICKHOUSE_URL="http://custom-host:8123" cargo run
```

### Create a Virtual Environment
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

### Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## DBT Setup and Operations

### Install DBT Dependencies
```bash
# Make sure you're in the virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dbt-clickhouse
pip install dbt-clickhouse
```

### Run DBT
```bash
# Navigate to dbt project directory
cd dbt_clickhouse

# Test the connection
dbt debug

# Run the models
dbt run

# Test the data
dbt test

# Run the models with full refresh and debug logs
dbt run --full-refresh --debug
```

### Query Data in ClickHouse
You can use the provided bash scripts to quickly query the data:

```bash
# Make scripts executable
chmod +x db/sql_queries/query_blocks.sh db/sql_queries/query_transactions.sh db/sql_queries/query_receipts.sh

# Query blocks
./db/sql_queries/query_blocks.sh

# Query transactions
./db/sql_queries/query_transactions.sh

# Query receipts
./db/sql_queries/query_receipts.sh

### Troubleshooting
- If dbt can't find the JSON files, verify the paths in the model SQL files
- If you get permission errors, ensure ClickHouse has access to the raw data directory
- If you need to reset the tables, you can run:
```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sweet_potatoe_dbt.raw_blocks;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sweet_potatoe_dbt.raw_transactions;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS sweet_potatoe_dbt.raw_receipts;
```
